hey how are you you hear this phrase all
the time
and I'm sure you have a reflex to answer
I'm fine thank you
this was like your first English class
at school right but the thing is what
we've learned in school is not always
applicable in real life in America for
example if you're asked how are you in
the majority of cases people don't care
which means that your answer should
depend on whether people care or not and
I'm fine thank you it's really well kind
of old-fashioned so today I'm gonna
teach you how to reply - how are you in
different situations and with different
people so here interested continue
watching
[Music]
first let's look at some quick phrases
that you can use you would use those
phrases with acquaintances or strangers
what does it mean when you come to a
grocery store and the cashier asks you
how are you this is a stranger and you
don't want to tell them that you know
everything is bad and you have to pay
this college bill whatever or somebody
sitting next to you in a bus or you're
riding in an elevator like I've read in
an elevator every day I mean my
neighbors and they're always how are you
it doesn't mean really interested how am
i they just want to start a conversation
those people are also strangers actually
in the United States people ask you how
are you sometimes it's equal to hello
and it's not really a question
so in this situations it's better to
give a short answer because you don't
want to be too daunting with explaining
what's going on in your life the first
short answer is not bad which depending
on your intonation can be either
positive or neutral so if you say no bad
that means everything is okay everything
is going well you can all say not bad
which is neutral or not bad this is
positive not bad the next right so you
can say all right again here it means
you're fine and everything depends on
your intonation all right it's like okay
neutral everything is all right positive
you know you're enjoying your life I
know right the next thing you can say
good I'm good and sometimes you think
that saying I'm good is grammatically
incorrect because when we're talking
about actions we normally use adverbs
instead of adjectives so for example
saying we danced good is wrong we danced
well it's better but because in this
sentence you're actually saying I am
good or you can just say good it makes a
grammatically correct so don't worry
about it I'm good is a completely
grammatically correct phrase and it
means that you're happy
everything is going well in your life so
again this is the last answer that I'm
giving you when you reply to strangers
so let's repeat them not bad
all right good very short kind of
informal and you don't waste other
people's time because you remember that
how are you is just a way of saying
hello and be polite but if you're
talking to your friends if you're
talking to your family members if you're
talking to somebody who's really close
it's actually impolite to just tell them
like yeah I'm okay whatever I'm good you
want to be more explicit you want to go
into details because these people
actually care about you and they want to
know what's going on in your life you
can say I'm exhausted
you're really tired there are a lot of
things going on at work and you really
want to complain them do it that's a
perfect situation to complain because
you're talking to your friends I'm
exhausted
if you tell your friend that you're okay
sometimes if he's really worried about
you
he might ask you just okay and this
would be an appropriate follow-up
question because they might notice that
something is not well that something's
going on so they want more honesty from
you okay you can say I'm frustrated my
aunt in San Francisco she just got a new
job and we met for dinner and I was like
how are you and she's like I'm
frustrated there is this co-worker who
is so annoying
who is he's actually below her shows she
manages him and he's trying to tell her
what to do all the time and she said I'm
first rated I don't know how to deal
with him I don't know how to settle in
this new working space because this guy
keeps telling me what to do when in the
reality I'm his manager totally
appropriate phrase to answer question
how are you I'm first to rated okay I'm
just frustrated if a friend calls you
and you know he would always call when
he has free time and wants to talk he
didn't tell them hey I'm busy
you know I'm recording a video for
handling over in the channel I'm gonna
call you back in half an hour I'm busy
I'm busy you see what we're talking
about here is giving people more details
about how you're actually feeling and
the next phrase is stressed out how are
you I'm so stressed out right now you
know I have exams coming in a week I
have to apply for a job I have to apply
for a visa blah blah blah so there's a
lot going on in your life and you are
under this pressure I'm so stressed out
by the way in the task for you after
this video is to tell me how you are and
I'm asking you how are you and if you
already have a phrase in mind
write it down comments below and tell me
what's going on in your life let's make
it more informal let's make it in a way
that friends and relatives do tell me
how are you feeling what's going on in
your life using one of those phrases
that you're learning right now another
very common phrase I've been better
normally it's followed up by actually
complaining about something or
explaining what's going on in your life
and why right now is not the best time
why you're not enjoying your life right
now and if you say I've been better I
will probably ask what's going on why
every better if everything is great if
you don't want to go into too many
details you can just say I'm great
everything is great how are you I'm
great and the last but not the least if
something is coming up in your life
you're having a baby you're heading out
to a concert you are getting in your job
you can say I'm excited I'm excited and
don't forget that when people ask you
especially your friends when they ask
you how you are and when you tell them
what's going on in your life it's very
important that you also ask them back
what's going on in their lives because
this is the way you start a conversation
this is the way you've being polite and
maintaining relationship with people who
matter to you that was it for me guys
for today thank you so much for watching
this video don't forget to subscribe
this channel like this video if you
liked it and I will see you very soon in
the next video